PHP-GTK: PHP language bindings for GTK+ toolkit
===============================================
PHP-GTK is a PHP extension that enables you to write client-side cross-platform
GUI applications. This is the first such extension of this kind and one of the
goals behind it was to prove that PHP is a capable general-purpose scripting
language that is suited for more than just Web applications.

This extension will _not_ allow you to display GTK+ programs in a Web browser.
It is intended for creating standalone GUI applications.


Requirements
============
As a prerequisite, you should have a CGI binary (command-line) version of PHP
installed along with the header files and development scripts. They should
normally be installed when you do 'make install' in the PHP source tree.

Currently, PHP-GTK requires PHP 4.0.5 or greater (latest CVS version will work
too).

PHP-GTK supports GTK+ v1.2 and requires v1.2.6 or greater. GTK+ v2.0 is not yet
supported but will be so in the future when v2.0 is out of the development phase
and is used more widely. The latest stable release of GTK+ v1.2.x can be
obtained from ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/gtk/v1.2/.


Installation and testing
========================
After unpacking the distribution or checking out the sources from the CVS,
change into the base directory and do the following.

First, run the 'phpize' script that should have been installed along with PHP.
It will set up necessary files and create 'configure' script for you. Next, run
'./configure'. It will check that you have proper version of GTK+ and other
files required for compilation and create the Makefile's.

Finally, run 'make' to compile the extension. Some source files are generated
from .defs files by the code generator. If you see messages like "Could not
write...", that just means that certain GTK+ objects or features are not yet
supported. If the compilation is successful, run 'make install' to install the
extension into your default PHP extension directory (usually
/usr/local/lib/php/extensions).

To test the extension, try running the example scripts in the test/ directory,
especially gtk.php. These are also good for showing how the extension can be
used.


Website
=======
The website for this extension can be found at:

    http://gtk.php.net/

This is where you should go to obtain the latest releases and news about
PHP-GTK.


Mailing list
============
There is a mailing list for PHP-GTK. To subscribe, send blank email to
php-gtk-subscribe@lists.php.net. The address of the list itself is
php-gtk@lists.php.net. The list is archived at MARC
(http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-gtk&r=1&w=2).


Patches and feedback
====================
You can contact me directly at andrei@php.net or through the mailing list.
Patches in the unified diff (diff -u) format can be sent via the same means.


Acknowledgements
================
The person I would like to thank the most is James Henstridge
<james@daa.com.au>, the author of PyGTK (Python GTK+ bindings). His help and
advice have proved invaluable during the development of this extension, and a
fair amount of source code is based on or inspired by what he has developed for
PyGTK.

I'd also like to thank PHP team for making such a great language and the GTK+
team for developing what has to be the best C-based GUI toolkit.

# vim: set et tw=80 ai sts=4:
